Dear Sebastian Jordan Montaño,

We are grateful for your patience while waiting for the first paper notification.

We are pleased to inform you that your paper has been accepted for publication in the IWST 2025 proceedings.

Submission ID:3
Title: Coypu: a library and DSL for Composing and Performing Electronic Music on-the-Fly with Pharo
Authors: Domenico Cipriani, Sebastian Jordan Montaño, Nahuel Palumbo, Stéphane Ducasse

Please, find enclosed the reviewers' comments and improve your paper according to the reviewers' suggestions and resubmit the paper to the EasyChair submission page by July 28th, 2025 AoE.

Furthermore, please include your answers to the reviewers and discuss the requested changes that you have incorporated and the reasons in case you haven't done so. You may also upload a diff of the paper in case you consider it appropriate. Reviewers will verify your answers and validate that everything is ok for the proceedings.

Furthermore, please keep in mind originality, style, structure, and formal English language, which is compulsory for academic publications.

Best regards,
IWST team

SUBMISSION: 3
TITLE: Coypu: a library and DSL for Composing and Performing Electronic Music on-the-Fly with Pharo

----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------

SUBMISSION: 3
TITLE: Coypu: a library and DSL for Composing and Performing Electronic Music on-the-Fly with Pharo
AUTHORS: Domenico Cipriani, Sebastian Jordan Montaño, Nahuel Palumbo and Stéphane Ducasse

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 3 (strong accept)
----- TEXT:
The extended abstract describes coypu, a DSL to program music on Pharo.
The paper presents the design decisions and principles followed behind.

The abstract is on topic with the workshop, and is relevant for the whole community, involving language and library implementors, and music practitioners.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------

SUBMISSION: 3
TITLE: Coypu: a library and DSL for Composing and Performing Electronic Music on-the-Fly with Pharo
AUTHORS: Domenico Cipriani, Sebastian Jordan Montaño, Nahuel Palumbo and Stéphane Ducasse

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 1 (weak accept)
----- TEXT:
This paper presents Coypu, a new library for on-the-fly music programming within Pharo.
It first presents the main classes of Coypu with examples of them, then shows some examples of the DSL.

Comments:

- Abstract and Intro: I would remove the dashes in sentences because they look like ChatGPT style in text reformulation for example:
"... stochastic generation—where random processes are employed to create musical elements—while... "
"... music—one that is easy ... "
"... material—especially music and visuals."
- Intro, third paragraph: reference is incorrect near "Kyma system[?]"
- Intro last 2 paragraphs: This is more state of the art than previous work.
- Intro last sentence: It is not clear what the sections of the paper are.

- Section 2.1 second sentence: digital audio workstation should be capitalized.
- Section 2.1 last paragraph: no need to explain again the abbreviation Digital Audio Workstation (DAW); just say DAW since it was stated previously.
- Section 2,1 figure description: what is OSC ?
- General comment about listings: I would prefer to cite the listings in the paper to link them with the paragraphs instead of putting them at the end of each section with a long description for each one.
- Conclusion: Usually a conclusion is a briefing of the paper. A repetition of the intro reformulated in another way. This is helpful for readers who will first have a look at the abstract, intro, and conclusion to have an idea about the paper's subject. But it is not the case here. Suggestion: rename "conclusion" as "use case" or something similar, and reformulate a new conclusion.

- The authors said at the begining that the paper presents a DSL/library. Then in the following we saw that the authors used Dialect. It is not clear. Also to introduce a new Language it is recommended to explain how its grammar looks like in a generic way; it could be done using for example using BNF notation. But I'm not sure if this is what is meant by.

Some typo issues:
- Intro, second paragraph, second sentence: We offer an an overview ...
- Section 2 first sentence: ... Preformance performance class.
- Section 2.1 last sentence: parametrs
- ....
- Conclusion: hosted at System in Shanghai, hosted at System in Shanghai


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------

SUBMISSION: 3
TITLE: Coypu: a library and DSL for Composing and Performing Electronic Music on-the-Fly with Pharo
AUTHORS: Domenico Cipriani, Sebastian Jordan Montaño, Nahuel Palumbo and Stéphane Ducasse

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 1 (weak accept)
----- TEXT:
Composing and Performing Electronic Music no-the-Fly with Pharo and Coypu

In this paper, the authors present their implementation of an interface to generate music with Pharo. This interface then connects to known musical producer programs through HTTP to generate sound performances.


= Major comments =
== Pros ==
+ Interesting topic for the Smalltalk community. There are not many papers linking music and the Smalltalk world
+ Proper English is used
+ Justification for the design choices of the implementation of the interface is appreciated
+ The paper sets up the basis for a non-musician to understand the implementation needs


== Cons ==
+ In a paper discussing the implementation of a library, there is confusion between the concepts of classes and instances.
+ Classes could have been named with Abstract<classname> since they are not instantiated nor subclassed, e.g, the "Performer" class.
+ Specific musical domain terms and acronyms are defined throughout the paper, but are used in the introduction. Some concepts are used without definition. This gives a fuzzy feeling to the reader. An additional Section presenting the main concepts could be an added value.
+ Many mistakes could have been avoided by just reading the paper one last time attentively (word and sentence repetition, references not found).

= Minor comments =
+ General: Section should be capitalized (S2§1)
+ General: The authors need to decide on how to present method names in the paper: either as playFor: in S2§2 or as playEventAt: anIndex in S3§1.
+ General: bullet point lists could be aligned more on the left
+ S1§2: We offer an an overview -> offer an overview
+ S1§3: Kyma[?] : missing reference
+ S1§3: "Kyma is recongnized for its state-of-the-art synthesis engine" -> It is quite a strong statement. Where is the reference?
+ S1§6: The Section presentation is unclear.  It seems there are 5 or 2 parts, but not 4. Something like "Section 2 presents... . Then Section 3 describes..." could be better
+ S2§1 : If the class is called Performance, it seems obvious that it is for a performance, no need to repeat the word.
+ S2§1 : "It is implemented as a singleton ... new instances.". The author shouldn't get directly into the details of the implementation. First, the reader needs to understand what a Performance is, to appreciate that a singleton is needed.
+ Listings: The listings should be referenced and described as Figure 1. Line numbers can be added to ease further references and explanations.
+ S2-Listing 1: There is no previous explanation on Performer and OS. This is losing the reader. Moreover, "#rumba asRhyth to: #conga" seems not linked to the Performance singleton nor the Performer. Maybe a paragraph detailing this could be welcomed.
+ S2§2: "The sequencers within the performance can be muted". What is a sequencer? It is defined later, but this is too early here
+ S2§2: "When a Performance is played after a number of steps". What is a step?
+ S2§2: "The value assigned .. variable". The reader is unsure of understanding the meaning here. Again, describing Listing 1 precisely could help improve the discourse.
+ S2.1: Why a subsection there? Why is there no Section 2.2?
+ S2.1§1: "The sequencer class stores the data" -> Does the author mean "A sequencer instance stores..."?
+ S2.1§2: What are gates, noteIndex?
+ Figure 1: Why does the dirt message not have a value?
+ S2.1§3: "A sequencer .. DAW)" is repeated
+ S2.1§3: Great description of the mechanism, but a link to the instance variable above can add some value.
+ Listing 2: Why does the performer change the performance? It appears that the class responsibility of the performer is not well-defined. Do you miss a performance initializer?
S3.1§1: The fact that a naming convention for the classes exists implies there is some dynamic name linking. Maybe some explanation could be interesting.
S3.1§3-4: The reader doesn't need details on the port and protocol that are used. Saying that using a network connection is enough.
Listing 3: "Performer" shouldn't be named "SuperDirtPerformer"? The code is very specific to it.
Listing 3: Why is the temporary variable "message" a collection? Having a first-class object and building it little by little seems more interesting.
+ S3.3§1: "Phausto is library and API". A Library is usually embedded in a program, whereas an API is typically an external, standalone application over the network. The reader doesn't see how it can be both.
+ S3.3§1: "The events in the sequencer are dispatched to the assigned by [...] FFI calls." What is "the assigned"?
+ S4§1: Footnote 5 can be inlined.
+ S4§2: "If notes ... the" -> sentence duplicated
+ S4.3: The Euclidean rhythms and Hexbeats could need an example.
+ S4.3: Hexbeats may deserve their own Section
+ S4.4§2: "Entries are separated by commas". Why is the author not using dynamic arrays to define the notes? Could it ease finding the patterns?
+ S5§1: "The lack of flexibility in ...". The linear notation and cyclical structures seems essential concepts that are not defined previously.
+ Figure 2: not referenced nor explained
+ S6§1: "hosted at System..." -> repeated
+ S6§1: What is TurboPhausto? Perhaps it could be defined in Section 5, along with future work?
+ S6§1: Why is Iceberg referenced there? Do we need a versioning system to create music?
+ S6§1: Toplo and Bloc could use references.


= Typos =
S2§2: playhead incrementing -> playhead by incrementing
S2§2: {seqKey -> #seqKey?
S2.1§3: parametrs -> parameters
S3.1§2: accordig -> according
Listing 4: anew -> a new
S4§4: subsection -> subsections
S4.2§1: trigs -> triggers
S4.2§1: spired: remove
